Previously...
- You need more men.
- I'll leave tomorrow.
I will promise to stand
by your side,
Colonel Fraser, sir.
Confirmed sightings
of Bonnet in Wilmington.
Bree doesn't know, does she?
No.
Kezzie and I
are indentured to a man
who lives not far from here.
Take these lads
and the rest of the company
and continue to Brownsville.
Claire and I will go see
this Mr. Beardsley.
I must speak with your husband.
Husband's dead.
I would like to purchase
yer two bond servants.
Keep 'em.
I got no use for 'em.
You said he was dead.
He struck me, and then he fell,
and I couldn't move him.
Baby's father is black.
You hear that?
She isn't yours.
- Fanny?
- She's not coming back.
She left the deed with the baby.
And indenture papers.
♪ Sing me a song ♪
♪ Of a lass that is gone ♪
♪ Say, could that lass ♪
♪ Be I? ♪
♪ Merry of soul ♪
♪ She sailed on a day ♪
♪ Over the sea ♪
♪ To Skye ♪
♪ Billow and breeze ♪
♪ Islands and seas ♪
♪ Mountains of rain and sun ♪
♪ Mountains of rain
and sun ♪
♪ All that was good ♪
♪ All that was fair ♪
♪ All that was me ♪
♪ Is gone ♪
♪ Sing me a song ♪
♪ Of a lass that is gone ♪
♪ Say, could that lass ♪
♪ Be I? ♪
♪ Merry of soul ♪
♪ She sailed on a day ♪
♪ Over the sea ♪
♪ To Skye ♪
♪
♪ Sing me a song ♪
♪ Of a lass ♪
♪ That is gone ♪
♪ Say, could that lass ♪
♪ Be I? ♪♪♪
♪
Halloo the house!
Attendez.
Do not move.
I'm Captain Roger MacKenzie,
in command of a militia
serving under
Colonel James Fraser
of Fraser's Ridge.
We saw you up the road,
Morton, you bastard.
You'll pay for what you did!
♪
What do you want with Morton?
None of your concern.
Hand him over.
Do you think they're Regulators?
Well, not unless Morton's
secretly a corrupt
tax collector in disguise.
Isaiah!
I'm sorry.
I had to tell.
I couldn't marry Elijah Ford.
Please, Isaiah,
say you'll do right by me.
♪
- Don't hurt him!
- Alicia!
I'd rather die
than be without him!
Have a shred of dignity.
Shouting for all the world
to hear of your shame.
Isaiah.
What can we do?
Oh, Lord, give me courage.
I suppose we better do
as they ask.
What?
Turn Morton over to them?
Aye.
We're gonna need some
of that whisky, Fergus.
Oh, are you sure?
Oh.
Aye, and get a full bottle,
please.
A bit of Dutch courage
is all we need.
Aye, Captain.
Stand down.
♪
How was town, Mistress?
- It was good... and busy.
- Oh.
We got paper and books,
fabrics, linen, cotton.
Oh, canna wait to see them.
And something
a little special for you.
- For me?
- Mm-hmm.
You'll smell
like orange blossom.
Thank you, Mistress.
Now, let's go inside
and, uh, make stew
and dumplings.
What do you think, Mr. Bug?
Go all that way to town
for sugar,
and it's savory dumplings again?
Well, we all know
you're sweet enough.
Ugh, stop your nonsense.
Mrs. Bug...
where did Jemmy get this?
While you were collecting the post,
a man ruffled Jemmy's hair
and gave him a coin.
Did he say anything?
He said, "What a handsome lad,"
and, uh, did he take after
his mother or his father?
And then just gave him a coin?
He say anything else?
He was Irish, you see.
So, of course, once they get
talking about this and that,
it can take all day, but...
What did he look like?
A gentlemen, he was,
fair and strong.
Did he have a scar here?
I'm sorry.
I dinna recall.
I hope you don't think
I would ever let the bairn
come in harm's way.
No, no, I-I know.
I just know all about the Irish
gift of the gab, that's all.
Don't want Jemmy's mind filled
with superstitious nonsense
about luck.
- Let's forget about it.
- Aye.
I'll call you
when the stew's ready.
Here.
Um, with so many away
from the Ridge,
I think maybe we should move
into the big house
with everyone.
Aye, mistress.
It is nice to have company.
♪
Isaiah.
How much for a cask?
We'll buy some,
and you can be on your way.
Will you oblige me
and have a little more?
What are you, whisky merchants?
Heh, no.
No, no.
As I was saying earlier,
we are militiamen
charged by Governor Tryon
to march against
the Regulators.
Hmm.
Well, it's tolerable,
I'll admit.
Then perhaps I can
propose a toast... hmm?
To the men of Brownsville
and to the men
of the Fraser's Company.
Au courage.
We've come to notify you
of your obligation
to provide men.
Heh.
"Obligation"?
Or opportunity, I should say.
40 shillings and two shillings
every day thereafter
for each man.
The only present obligation
I have is to my daughter...
And these men here,
who'll break that boy's neck
without hesitation
if I give the word.
What could a young lad
like Morton possibly have done
that can't be resolved
over a drink?
That bastard's cost me
a fortune.
I had a match arranged
with my daughter.
Elijah Ford brought with him
almost 10 acres
and a decent trade in tobacco.
I tell her the news
and she weeps,
refusing to be wed because
Morton got to her first.
Ford won't marry a harlot.
♪
Maybe Morton
isn't as fine a match,
but would you consider him
a suitor?
He's dishonored my daughter.
Now, I told her I'd see him
dead at her feet
if ever he dared show
his wretched countenance
within 10 miles of Brownsville.
And damn my eyes
if that grass-livered
spittle-snake
hasn't the face
to ride right up to my door.
♪
You and your men
can stay the night.
But when you go
on your way tomorrow,
Morton won't be joining you.
♪
Mm.
She's a bonnie wee thing.
She is.
To see ye with a bairn,
Sassenach.
I could watch ye hold her
all day.
I hope we're not too far
from Brownsville.
She won't do well
on goat's milk alone.
We should be there before dusk.
Dinna fash.
We'll find someone
to nurse wee "Bonnie."
And what then?
Do we bring a newborn
all the way to Hillsborough?
I'm not sure it's the best way
to put the fear of God
into the Regulators,
unless they're afraid
of a few dirty diapers.
Hmm.
The surest way to send
any man scurrying for cover.
Hmm.
Some of the men,
Robertson, Morrison,
and a few others...
are gone.
Gone?
What do you mean gone?
Gone where?
They don't respect what you did.
What I did?
- Well, I had to do something.
- I know, and I agree.
But they didn't.
I'm-I'm-I'm sorry.
I tried.
Ah, Christ.
Sounds like Roger's
won them over.
♪ Where ha' ye been
a' the day ♪
♪ Bonnie laddie,
Hielan' laddie ♪
♪ Saw ye him that' far awa' ♪
♪ Bonnie laddie,
Hielan' laddie ♪
♪ On his head a bonnet blue ♪
♪ Bonnie laddie,
Hielan' laddie ♪
♪ Tartan plaid
and Hielan' trews ♪
♪ Bonnie laddie,
Hielan' laddie ♪
♪ When he drew
his gude braid-sword ♪
♪ Bonnie laddie,
Hielan' laddie ♪
♪ Then he gave
his royal word ♪
Josiah.
♪ Hielan' laddie ♪
I have secured you
and your brother's
indenture papers.
Ye willna see
Mr. Beardsley again.
♪ Wi' his friends
wad live or dee ♪
What about the mistress?
Well, she's gone for good.
She left her baby with us.
I didn't know
she was with child.
♪
Kezzie told me the mistress
may have lain with...
well, there's a man,
a former slave.
He came looking for work
once or twice.
Then all of us...
we're all free?
Aye, lad.
♪
Does that mean we can
ride on to Hillsborough
with your militia?
How old are ye?
♪
Ye canna be more than 14.
I must be older than that.
I'm telling ye, ye're 14,
too young to fight.
♪
Aye, Colonel.
Ye've fought hard
to earn your freedom.
I willna let ye lose it
in death on the battlefield.
Go home.
Hunt.
Provide for the Ridge.
♪ Charlie yet shall mount
the throne ♪
♪ Bonnie laddie,
Hielan' laddie ♪
♪ Weel, ye ken it is his own ♪
♪ Bonnie laddie,
Hielan' laddie ♪
♪
Fergus.
Is that our whisky?
Oui, milord.
There was a small difficulty.
Uh, before you explain,
I also have a small difficulty.
Congratulations.
You work fast, milord.
Uh, the baby
needs milk urgently.
Are there any
nursing mothers around?
Mothers, no.
But the lady of the house
will surely be able to help.
♪
Hi, I'm sorry to bother you.
This is Mistress Claire Fraser
of Fraser's Ridge,
colonel's wife.
My daughter-in-law Lucinda
just gave birth.
She'll have the milk
for the babe.
Oh, I'm so sorry to intrude.
This little one was born
a few days ago.
She's not mine.
I fed her goat's milk
on the road here, but...
She needs to be fed properly.
Okay.
Oh.
Such a strong and healthy babe.
Hmm.
Beautiful.
A girl?
Yes.
Does she have a name?
No.
She lost both her parents
before they could christen her.
Is she a slave's babe?
Not quite.
How'd you come by her, then?
What's this "difficulty"
Fergus told me about?
Wee bit of a misunderstanding
on our arrival.
And ye cleared it up
with our whisky?
When in Rome,
do as the Romans do.
♪
When I was a professor
at Oxford,
I loved telling my students
about words and phrases,
their origins, their meanings.
Do you know where the expression
"Dutch courage" comes from?
I'm sure ye're about to tell me.
What's it got to do wi' Rome?
Some say it dates back
a century ago
to when English troops
would drink to calm themselves
before heading into battle.
Others say the English witnessed
the incredible courage
gin gave the Dutch.
A number of times in history,
an advance of soldiers
were stopped by an exchange
of alcohol or goods.
Take the First World War,
for example.
There was a daily rum ration
on the western front...
Where are Morrison and Scott?
Piss drunk already?
No.
They left...
and, with them, three more.
Left?
Why?
♪
Ye allowed Lionel Brown
to do this to one of yer men?
They wanted to blow Morton
to smithereens.
I had to...
I had to agree to some kind
of temporary confinement.
And what were you gonna do
once the whisky ran out?
I was hoping you would arrive
before that happened,
and you did.
♪
I avoided confrontation.
I kept the peace.
Do ye ken the meaning
of the word "captain,"
Professor MacKenzie?
Is that one ye can
explain to me?
Yer men left because
ye betrayed their trust.
Those who remain
willna have much faith left.
They swore to follow us
into battle,
to risk their lives.
As captain, ye must honor
their loyalty above all else.
What good is loyalty
if the men are hurt or worse?
♪
I was responsible for that too.
Now, what disarray
have ye and yer cock
brought upon our endeavor?
♪
If ye have dishonored
the Browns' daughter,
ye must marry her
and put matters to rights.
Ye dinna have much choice,
Isaiah.
I would, Colonel, but I canna.
♪
Regretfully,
I already have a wife.
♪
I can understand
the Browns wanting to see ye
drawn and quartered.
How is it ye have a wife?
My marriage was arranged
between her parents and mine.
Ally... Miss Brown...
She-she took a likin' to me
on my travels
through Brownsville.
And I took a likin' to her.
My, um... my heart
had a mind of its own.
'Twas as if I had no say
in the matter.
Still, ye made a vow
to yer wife and broke it.
Ye swore an oath to me.
How can I be certain
ye willna break it
before day's end?
My vow to ye was my own will.
Aye, as was yer infidelity.
I think we should consider
clemency for the man.
After all,
"love makes fools of us all."
Ye must leave.
Dinna show yer face here again.
I meant no trouble for ye.
As yer colonel, I'll take care
of your trouble.
What's stopping ye?
I'll never see Ally again.
Go.
It'll be better for both of ye.
♪
They'll come looking for him.
And they willna find him.
♪
So Mistress Beardsley
disappeared and left us
with the child.
When we went outside,
we found
Mr. Beardsley's grave.
She probably killed the bastard.
Ma, you always think
the worst of people.
I'm just saying, is all.
Beardsleys were strange,
came through here once
on their way home,
didn't say a word.
So the babe's dark.
Aaron Beardsley
wasn't the father.
No.
Fanny Beardsley may be strange,
but she isn't the first woman
to find herself in...
an unsuitable situation,
and she certainly
won't be the last.
Oh, I'm so sorry.
Oh, don't worry.
Funny you should spill cider
on it, in fact.
I don't know who these
physicians think they are
these days,
writing to the broadsheets
with their "wisdom."
It speaks of means to prevent
becoming with child.
"A woman is most fertile
between"...
Alicia, it is improper to speak
of such things in company.
May I see that?
Trust you to draw her attention
to that vulgar nonsense.
Have you no compassion
for your cousin?
There now, my little lady.
You'll do well here with us.
The babe's a beauty.
We're not here to judge her
for her parents' sins.
If you like, Mistress Fraser,
I'll take the babe tonight.
It won't do you much good
to be woken up
by a screaming child
when I can feed her here.
Won't your husband mind
you having to feed
two hungry mouths?
No bother at all.
♪
My husband is a fair man.
A fair man who fired
at my Isaiah.
Aye, he did,
and very fairly at that.
No one to blame but yourself.
If your poor mother could see
how lowly you'd fallen.
♪
Would it be all right
if I, uh, take this?
♪
I, um... I could use it
to, um, light a fire.
That's all it's good for.
♪
Thank you for your kindness.
♪ There was twa
recruitin' sergeants ♪
♪ Came frae the Black Watch ♪
♪ Through markets and fairs,
some recruits for to catch ♪
Well, you've only lost
a few men.
Men are what I need
for this show of force.
And what should Roger have done?
Well, he had command
of near two dozen men.
One word from him,
and the Browns
would have been outnumbered.
Instead he had them stand down
and gave up one of his own.
Actions have consequences,
Sassenach.
Yes, I know they do,
but everyone can make a mistake.
♪
Here, look at this.
♪ Horses was to fleg
and yer owsen was to rin ♪
Who's Dr. Rawlings?
Me.
You?
Beauchamp, Randall,
Fraser, now Rawlings?
Ye have another husband
I should ken about?
It's a pseudonym.
That was the doctor's name
of the medical equipment
you gave me.
You wrote to the broadsheets?
No.
No, I wrote out some
medical advice for the Ridge
to dispel certain superstitions.
Never intended for it
to go any further.
♪
Who would have submitted
it to the printer
without me knowing?
♪ That greedy ol' farmer
thinks you never will tire ♪
Matured in oak casks,
you say, huh?
Aye, the Scottish way.
Of course, it doesn't compare
to the wine from Champagne en France.
That's a damsel's drink
if ever I heard of one.
Fergus... that advertisement
ye took to the printer,
ye remember the paper
ye wrote on?
Did it have writing
on the other side?
There was.
Why?
Ah, printer must have
decided to use it,
a very respectable name,
after all, "Dr. Rawlings."
Do you think it will
cause us any trouble?
I mean, will anyone
associate it with Fergus
or the Ridge?
Not unless someone
tries to find the author,
invite him to speak
on how "bloodletting
is a harmful practice."
He's gone. He's gone!
He's gone!
Morton's gone!
Morton's gone.
What are you telling me, boy?
Was no one guarding him?
No, they were drinking.
Find him, and when you do,
don't wait for me.
No, Morton is a militiaman
under my protection.
Well, we're as protective
as you, Colonel,
only I protect my own.
Ho! Ho there!
♪
What in God's name's going on?
I had Isaiah Morton.
He was here,
can't have gone far.
Did you have any luck
with Elijah Ford?
♪
He could not be persuaded.
Well, we can still catch Morton,
if the militia will
step out of my way.
I'm Colonel James Fraser.
Any harm done to Morton
will be considered an act of
aggression against my militia,
formed by His Excellency, Governor Tryon.
I'll have no choice
but to consider ye
traitors to the crown,
no better than the Regulators
we were sent to disperse.
Who are you calling a traitor?
Stop, brother.
You sound foolish.
And a drunken fool at that.
I want Morton as much as you do.
So I am gonna talk
to Colonel Fraser...
♪
Come to an understanding.
Is that clear?
♪
You keep strange company,
Colonel Fraser.
Isaiah Morton...
Not of the God-fearing kind.
Little I can do
about a man's character.
There's enough sin
and lawlessness each day
without counting
those Regulators
causing disorder
on an already
crumbling society.
And we don't want no trouble
with the governor.
So if you have come recruiting,
you could not have found
any better men
in all the Carolinas.
We'll ride to Hillsborough
with you,
but they'll all
be answering to me.
♪
Long as we're in agreement
ye will answer to me.
♪
You'll stay the night with us?
If it's no trouble.
What sort of man would I be
if I allowed a lady to sleep
out with the militia
on a cold, dark night?
♪
Jemmy.
Jemmy?
Where's Jemmy?
Where'd he go?
Ball.
Germain, look at me.
Did you see a man?
Ball.
Jemmy.
Jem-Jemmy?
Jemmy?
Jemmy!
He-he took him.
What? Who?
Jemmy! Jemmy!
I stepped outside for a minute,
and I-I shouldn't have.
He can't have gone far,
Mistress.
We'll find him.
Germain, where's Jemmy?
- Ball.
- Jemmy!
Jemmy!
Intent on finding
his precious trinket,
that's all.
♪
There we are, safe and sound.
Off to bed, everyone.
I know.
Meet me in the kitchen.
I ken an honest cure
for waking nightmares.
Okay, bud.
Connor Brown.
Hiram Brown.
♪
Phineas Brown.
Abner Brown.
♪
Will this do for you
and your husband?
It's perfect.
Thank you.
I hope you don't think
we're a family of ill repute
with all that's happened.
Perhaps God sent you
to bring us the babe
for a reason.
If you're looking
for a home for her,
we would care for her
as if she's ours.
That's very kind.
You see, Lucinda's own
was born too little.
She passed.
I'm so sorry.
Alicia will help you
with the bedding.
Come and join us
when you're ready.
♪
Mistress Fraser...
I heard.
Is Isaiah truly gone?
Better he stay gone,
considering your father's
feelings about him.
I know... but...
But what?
He's my first thought
in the morning
and my last thought at night.
He never spoke of marriage,
but I wouldn't have lain
with him if I thought...
Will you ask your husband,
if he sees Isaiah again,
to tell him
that I'll follow him wherever?
I'll do whatever I must.
Alicia.
Isaiah Morton...
is not worth
leaving your family for.
I'm sorry to have to be
the one to tell you this.
He's already married.
♪
What do you mean?
To whom?
♪
I don't know.
He told my husband.
Oh, he...
he's also not worth your tears.
♪
What will I do?
I'll never want anyone else,
and no one else
will ever want me.
♪
Alicia...
are you with child?
♪
I think so.
I don't know.
Oh.
♪
Your family will
take care of you.
No, I've disappointed them.
I've ruined my... our reputation.
Shh.
♪
I wish I was dead.
No.
No, that is the last thing
you should wish for.
♪
Ye gonna tell me
what kind of devil ye conjured?
I did, didn't I?
I conjured
everything up somehow.
I canna help ye if I dinna ken
what ye're thinkin'.
It's nothing.
I mean, I-I hope it's nothing.
Then we'll sit here and drink
in sacred silence.
It's my own fault.
I-I shouldn't have let
Jemmy out of my sight.
Nothing happened.
I never told you this... but...
I killed my father.
He beat us... hand, belt, pot...
whatever was close,
whenever he felt the urge,
which was often.
He once broke my lip.
Couldna speak for a month.
I prayed every night
that he would stop.
Wished him dead.
And then one day...
he was arrested as a Jacobite.
Though I prayed every night
for God to take him.
I let my mind be consumed
by thoughts
of all the terrible things
that could happen to him.
♪
He died in prison.
I killed him.
You didn't kill him.
♪
You see, thinking,
no matter how hard or long,
doesna make something come true.
♪
Or else I'd be the queen
of some castle
filled with jewels
and fine wines.
♪
Thank you.
Our men are
putting up the tents
for the night, Mistress,
up the road.
They need a hand.
Good.
Wait, come here.
♪
Open your mouth.
Stick out your tongue.
Ah.
♪
Jesus H. Roosevelt Christ.
Must you two be alike
in every way?
Is all well with him?
Does your throat hurt
from time to time
like your brother's?
Aye, comes and goes.
♪
Well, there's nothing
I can do it about it tonight.
But make sure to drink plenty...
Water or ale...
And pitch your tent
at a fair distance.
Aye, Mistress.
♪
It's about 20 miles.
It's about two...
♪
- What is it, Sassenach?
- Kezzie.
His tonsils are as infected
as his brother's.
Must have contracted it
from Josiah somehow.
His fever's very high.
Josiah's strong enough
to wait for surgery,
but I don't think Kezzie is.
Can ye perform it here?
I need penicillin
for this kind of surgery.
And ye don't have that yet?
No, I feel I was close
to finding the right strain
before we left.
♪
Then ye must return
with them to the Ridge.
Josiah's no use to me here.
The Ridge needs a hunter, and...
Keziah's no good to anyone dead.
What if you encounter
the Regulators?
Won't you need me?
Well, ye said ye didna ken
of any battles.
No, nor did Brianna.
I don't want to leave you
so soon.
♪
We didna spend a day in hell
to secure the safety
of those lads to...
see them suffer now.
Heal them both...
♪
And return to me.
Roger Mac.
♪
Colonel.
Come dawn,
ye will escort Claire home.
What?
Why?
I need to take the twins
back to my surgery.
What about the militia
and Hillsborough?
I made ye a captain
without time to prepare ye
or teach you
what the word meant.
From the old French capitaine
via the Latin...
Lead my wife home.
Don't worry.
We'll be back with them
before you know it.
It's not that that concerns me.
He doesna have any faith in me.
He just entrusted you
with the one thing
he loves most.
Aye.
♪
Go. Go and dance.
I hope my mother-in-law told you
that if you're looking
for a good home...
We don't mind keeping her.
Are you quite sure?
It's not her fault
how she came into this world,
and we have plenty of room
to spare now.
She wouldn't lack for anything.
If you'd allow it.
Well, I'd have to speak
with my husband.
Of course.
♪
Hey!
Here, would you like
to take her?
♪
Oh.
Go on, Mac Dubh.
♪
Mac Dubh! Go on, Mac Dubh!
Didn't know you could dance
like that.
Where are you taking me?
Heh. Away from prying eyes.
Well, I should warn you,
my husband's as jealous
as he is handsome.
Huh.
And you should know I can...
knock you off your feet, sir.
You can't even walk
in a straight line.
Can you recite the alphabet
backwards?
I expect so.
English or Greek?
Well, never mind.
If you can recite
either of those forwards,
then you're in
a better condition than I.
Mm.
Hmm.
Ah.
There's a...
a question I wanna ask ye.
What?
Do ye want wee Bonnie?
Do ye wanna keep her?
We have a big house.
I've seen ye with her,
Sassenach.
I've seen how you-you would
ha' looked with Bree.
♪
And I thought maybe this
might be the last chance
for us to raise
a bairn together.
♪
What would you think
if she stayed?
Here... in Brownsville?
♪
It's been suggested.
Lucinda's taken a liking to her.
I think she needs
our wee Bonnie
more than anyone.
She'd be in good hands.
Bonnie comes with the deed
to the Beardsley property.
After the trouble with Alicia,
it'd be a welcome addition
to the Browns' estate.
I have no life but you, Claire.
But if ye wanted another child,
I thought that perhaps
I might give ye one,
one that ye wouldn't have
to suffer carrying.
♪
Please know...
that if it's at all possible...
I love you even more
for wanting to take the chance.
I also regret that we were
never parents together.
But regret...
isn't reason enough.
♪
I love our life.
I love our home together.
♪
Would we even be
the best home for her?
Then there's our obituary.
♪
I am grateful...
for every day we have.
♪
As am I.
And Marsali and Fergus...
Well, I'm sure
they will keep the Ridge
sufficiently populated,
if that's what
you're worried about.
Yeah, that lass is with child
every time Fergus
lays eyes upon her.
And he dares to joke
about my virility.
Heh.
That was a gunshot.
♪
Here.
Alicia!
♪
Alicia.
I meant the bullet for my heart.
Please, leave me
so I can try again!
She's wounded.
We must get her home.
Come.
Shh, come.
Come on.
♪
It's all right, darling.
I'm all alone.
I can't live
with what I've done.
I can't live without Isaiah.
You are not alone,
and your baby
is worth living for.
Jamie, would you find
some whisky?
Settle her nerves.
Morton?
What in God's name
are you doing here?
I couldn't leave, sir,
not without seeing Ally.
Do you know
where I can find her?
The lass kens
ye've a wife already.
If her father sees ye,
he'll shoot ye on sight.
She may stab ye to the heart,
bigamist that ye are.
And if neither of them succeed,
I might do the job myself.
What sort of man
gets a lass with child
and no right
to give it his name?
With child?
Aye, she is.
Now, ye'd best leave.
I'm sorry, sir.
I dinna wish to do you harm,
but I must see Ally.
Put it down.
Ye ken fine ye willna shoot me.
So do I.
I canna speak ill of my wife,
but neither one of us was happy.
We havena shared a home
nor a bed for two years now,
and we've no children.
Ally... uh, Miss Brown
is my heart and soul.
Please, help me see her.
♪
Nothing in this world is worth
taking your life for.
♪
I thought you were gone.
I should be gone.
Is it true?
You're with child?
♪
Is it true you're married?
Yes.
And do you love her?
I love only you.
I have the muster roll here,
Colonel.
I just wanted to...
Morton?
What are you thinking
coming back?
I'm a fool, as ye said,
as are ye,
and as is the colonel.
Are ye both telling me
that if someone
told you to leave,
told ye that ye'd never see
Mistress MacKenzie
or Mistress Fraser again,
you'd stand for it,
that ye'd obey without a fight?
If either of ye would go
and leave the women ye love
with all yer hearts, say it now.
Say ye'd go, and I'll walk
out of here
without another word.
♪
So I was biding my time.
I had to wait for nightfall
to prove it to you.
Will ye have me?
It may be bold and...
reckless and foolish, but...
how can I live without ye?
Or I without you?
They can't stay here.
♪
No, they canna.
Go!
♪
- Those are our horses.
- Get after them!
♪
This wee devil roaming about.
Must've startled the horses.
They dinna take kindly
to our cloven-hooved friends.
♪
Adultery, betrayal, dishonor.
Excuses could be made,
of course.
I know I made my own
when I was separated
from Frank
by a power I didn't understand.
♪
And yet, wherever you are,
you make choices:
foolish ones or ones
that save yourself
or someone else.
All you can hope for
is that the good
will outweigh the harm
that may come of it.
♪